There are three popular languages for
interactive data analysis, R, Matlab,
and Python.
Our decision of which language to use
should be based on the task we're doing.
All three languages run inside
an interactive shell or
a graphical user interface.
They all emphasize storing and
manipulating data as multidimensional
arrays, which is very useful for
data analysis.
All three have many packages
available that extend the original
functionality of the language.
All three languages are typically
slower than C, C++, and Fortran,
though there are several techniques
that can help speed up things.
All three languages can interface
with native C++ code for
speeding up bottle necks.